Ria Asgekar: Hello! My name is Ria. I'm here with my teammates, Avantika and Jeevan.
Ria Asgekar: In this assignment we are performing expression evaluation, using stack. We'll be evaluating various mathematical expressions, using infix and postfix. And then we will be comparing the 2.
Ria Asgekar: We'll be using 3 algorithms here and the first one we'll be evaluating annex expression. Using 2 stacks
Ria Asgekar: in the next 2. We'll be first converting the infix expression to postfix, and then we'll evaluate the postfix expression.
Ria Asgekar: We've used stark because it works well with the nature of mathematical expressions, specifically the requirement to maintain the order of operations.
Ria Asgekar: So the last and first out, nature really, helps you.
Ria Asgekar: R,
Ria Asgekar: okay, in the stack class.
Ria Asgekar: we are primarily using 3 push pop and peak operations.
Ria Asgekar: The push operation adds, the current value to the top of the stack.
Ria Asgekar: The pop removes it from the top of the stack, and the peak operation is to find out which element is at the top.
Ria Asgekar: We've also defined 2 others is empty to check. If there are any elements of this, if there are no elements in this tab
Ria Asgekar: and size, just to find out how many elements there are.
Ria Asgekar: Next to G, one will take over.
Jeevan Raju: My name is Steven. And let's dive deeper into the program.
Jeevan Raju: So first let's understand, infix to postfix expression conversion, using a stack
Jeevan Raju: so, to convert an infix expression to postfix we use a stag to store operators.
Jeevan Raju: We scan the infix expression from left to right.
Jeevan Raju: If an operand is encountered, it is added directly to the output.
Jeevan Raju: If an operator is encountered, we first compare its precedence with the operator at the top of this tab.
Jeevan Raju: If the precedence of the current operator is higher, we push it onto the stack.
Jeevan Raju: If it is lower or equal, we pop operators from the stack and add them to the output until we find an operator with a lower precedence or the stack becomes empty.
Jeevan Raju: Finally, we push the current operator onto the stack.
Jeevan Raju: So, Avantika. Can you run this and show the
Jeevan Raju: so? This is a sample output of infix expression converted into a postfix expression
Jeevan Raju: later. Now let's move on to postfix expression evaluation
Jeevan Raju: in postfix evaluation.
Jeevan Raju: We scan the expression from left to right
Jeevan Raju: as a single scan. When an operand is encountered we push it onto the stack.
Jeevan Raju: When an operator is encountered, we pop the required number of operands from the stack.
Jeevan Raju: perform the required operation, and push the result back onto the stack.
Jeevan Raju: We continue this process until we have evaluated the entire expression resulting in the final answer.
Jeevan Raju: So running this part of the program
Jeevan Raju: gives us a single output at the end.
Jeevan Raju: Lastly, let's discuss infix expression. Evaluation
Jeevan Raju: this part of the program mainly uses 2 stacks.
Jeevan Raju: There's no conversion into a post fix expression, and this is done
Jeevan Raju: as a benchmark
Jeevan Raju: to compare performance during expression evaluation.
Jeevan Raju: Thank you. Avantika will take over.
Avantika Sivakumar: So when we run the infix evaluation code, again, we get the same result.
Avantika Sivakumar: But we use 2 stacks, and we can see how
Avantika Sivakumar: The result is calculated.
Avantika Sivakumar: So coming to the experiments and results, part of the assignment in the test class, we've defined
Avantika Sivakumar: many test cases with varied complexities that is, having different numbers of operators and operands.
Avantika Sivakumar: So for each of these infix expressions, we run the 3 algorithms, and we compare the timings for evaluating the infix expression directly.
Avantika Sivakumar: and for
Avantika Sivakumar: evaluating the infix expression after first converting it to a postfix expression.
Avantika Sivakumar: So we've also handled edge cases like invalid expressions, for example,
Avantika Sivakumar: with unbalanced parentheses like this example here.
Avantika Sivakumar: or with arithmetic errors like they divide by 0 error
Avantika Sivakumar: or with errors where
Avantika Sivakumar: the expression does not have only digits like this one.
Avantika Sivakumar: So we can run this.
Avantika Sivakumar: And
Avantika Sivakumar: yeah, as we can see, when there is a letter, it says that there's an invalid in fixed expression. And if there's a 0 divide by 0 error, that is also mentioned.
Avantika Sivakumar: So as we can see from the output. The test cases that are longer or basically have more number of operators in operands
Avantika Sivakumar: will take longer time than those that have fewer number of operators and operands.
Avantika Sivakumar: And we can also see that
Avantika Sivakumar: T 2 is generally much shorter than t one. Basically, it takes less time to convert the I mean sorry to evaluate the infix expression directly, using 2 stats when compared to
Avantika Sivakumar: converting it to a post-fix expression and then evaluating it.
Avantika Sivakumar: The first test case is always longer irrespective of its complexity, and this is because the
Avantika Sivakumar: jet compiler takes extra time to optimize the course. So the first test case is just used to warm up the loop.
Avantika Sivakumar: but we do not consider it for further analysis of the results.
Avantika Sivakumar: Thank you.